#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine biblatex-natbib
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblatex_bibstyle authoryear
\biblatex_citestyle authoryear
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
ACE
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Agricultural commodity exchanges have differing success rates in Africa.
 In Malawi, ACE started introducing structured trade 15 years ago.
 This project provides an opportunity for us to do research
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
What are the key elements or core characteristics of a commodity exchange.
 Aggregation? Storage? We need to make a choice here.
 Or do we consider both as primary outcomes.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Why do farmers generally sell all their maize immediately after harvest
 to 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In a survey among maize farmers in Uganda, more than 75 percent of farmers
 that sold maize sold everything in a single transaction, 77 percent to
 a middlemen and 50 percent immediately after harvest.
 This is also something that really puzzles me.
 If this is really about the money, why do people sell everything? Do they
 need to repay their debts? But even then, can they not wait a little longer?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Why do farmers sell low and buy high? State of the literature
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize
This is a big one: farmers need the money - In a field experiment in Kenya,
 we show that credit market imperfections limit farmers’ abilities to move
 grain intertemporally.
 Providing timely access to credit allows farmers to buy at lower prices
 and sell at higher prices, increasing farm revenues and generating a return
 on investment of 29% 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "10.1093/qje/qjy034"
literal "false"

\end_inset

.
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "Dillon02102021"
literal "false"

\end_inset

 uses the fact that primary school began 3 months earlier in 2010 than in
 2009 to demonstrate that this prompted households with children to sell
 maize when prices are particularly low.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
failure to commit.
 This includes failure to resist temptation to extract themselves or social
 taxation.
 There is a solid literature on this 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "10.1162/qjec.2006.121.2.635,10.1257/aer.103.4.1138"
literal "false"

\end_inset

.
 I would be particularly interested in individuals that are frequently taxed
 by friends and relatives.
 In this context, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "10.1257/aer.103.4.1138"
literal "false"

\end_inset

 find that adding an earmarking feature was effective.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
farmers have nowhere to store, so they just sell.
 This is a reason that is frequently mentioned by farmers themselves 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "OMOTILEWA2018176"
literal "false"

\end_inset

 I tried to look if there are impact evaluations on eg PICS bags on intertempora
l arbitrage but did not find anything.
 Maybe Brian knows because of his work in 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
budget neglect (which leads to an overoptimistic view of the future) - how
 does this fit in the sell low buy high puzzle? But do people really see
 the future better than it is? I think the term overoptimistic future is
 very misleading in this article.
 Towards the end, they speculate on why budget neglect persists.
 They find that rosy memories dampen ability to learn from the past.
 This seems to contradict research that claim bad experiences (rejections)
 tend to stick much more than positive outcomes (acceptance) .
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
The recent Cardell and Michelson article argues that the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

sell low buy high
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 puzzle is not a puzzle at all by arguing that price movements are insufficient
 for farmers to engage in inter-temporal arbitrage.
 But are they using appropriate prices (regional market prices are not a
 good proxy for farm gate prices)? Also, if farmers are indeed rational
 to sell everything immediately post harvest, then I am still surprised
 to see the predictable and recurrent consumption cycles (Kaur)
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Standard
Note: The best research projects are those that test behavior economic reasons
 why farmers appear to behave in a sub-optimal manner.
 Bias, procrastination, impulses,… This is because these are issues that
 one generally does not think about (they are generally new and somewhat
 out of the box reasons why something does not work) and they are often
 easier to test using RCTs.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
What do cost benefit functions look like? Do farmers actually use these
 cost benefit functions (or do they rely on rules of thumb or certain heuristics
 when deciding about sales.
 If they do not 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
How can we credibly measure farmer’s beliefs.
 Can we stratify on baseline beliefs?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Research questions:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
- Why do farmers generally sell all maize directly after harvest? Why do
 farmers not aggregate? Why do farmers not wait until prices are higher?
 This is from the farmer point of view.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
- How can we reduce side selling (both for warehouses and large traders).
 How can we increase the likelihood that farmers use warehouses.
 How can we increase volumes in warehouse.
 How can we increase storage time maize is stored in warehouses.
 This is from the viewpoint of ACE.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Key outcomes: - sales of commodity (proportion, quantities) - prices fetched
 - aggregation (sales to warehouse) - disrespecting contract/side selling
 - farmer welfare - time between harvest and sales
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Interventions we propose to test:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
- Advertising: ACE mentioned they are experimenting with video and audio
 to convince more farmers to use WRS and ACE services more broadly.
 We thus propose to test an intervention that builds on marketing techniques
 to convince farmers that this is really what they need.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We have tested a similar intervention in Uganda for a project that was more
 focused on extension (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/pdf/10.1002/ajae.12089).
 We would love to see if similar success can be obtained for marketing.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Questions: • What is the study population here? Can we also include (and
 bloc on) traders? • What about spillovers in the treatment group? Should
 we explore spillover by creating three groups (pure control, control but
 prone to spillover, treated)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Concerns: What is the public goods nature in this? In Jack (2013), the main
 question is if advertising can be used to address information asymmetries
 that prevent technology adoption.
 We need to be careful that what we do also contributes to solving the fundament
al question of farmers “selling low”, and not merely testing an advertising
 campaign for a company or organization (ACE).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
- commitment: would it be possible to nudge farmers to aggregate more and/or
 wait longer before they sell if we encourage farmers to commit themselves
 in some way? Ashraf et al (2006) find that a savings commitment device
 significantly increased savings.
 But that study does not allow one to differentiate between temptation models
 and hyperbolic discounting models (with a larger role for impatience).
 In the former case, it may be sufficient that the commodity is stored out
 of sight, but the farmer can, as a marginal cost, decide when to sell.
 In the latter case, commitment in time is also necessary.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So what if we design an experiment with 3 treatment arms: • control group
 • T1: farmers get encouraged to commit to storing (part of) their crop
 in a warehouse at harvest.
 • T2: farmers get encouraged to commit to storing (part of) their crop
 in a warehouse at harvest and additionally commit that they do not sell
 before a specified number of weeks have passed since harvest.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Questions: • Ashraf et al measure impatience using hypothetical questions.
 We had a good experience doing this in a incentivized way in Tanzania.
 Should we try this again? • What is the study populations? Farmers should
 have access to a warehouse or a place where they can deposit maize? Or
 is the intention enough? Bloc on cooperative?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Concerns: There are likely going to be significant interaction effects from
 the advertising experiment and commitment experiment, so if we run this
 as a factorial design, we can not boost power focusing on only one experiment.
 We will need to estimate fully saturated models with all possible interactions.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If we want to measure perceptions related to seasonal price cycles, how
 does this affect behaviour (priming).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Here is the idea of Brian so far:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
one (video based) intervention at the farmer level, were we take the farmers
 through a detailed cost-benefit analysis of the use of warehouse receipt
 systems to test the hypothesis of budget neglect
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
but I would do this at the individual level and cross with interventions
 at the same level, instead of targeting farmers.
 Maybe in the 2x2 we can get into some of the cognitive methods that causes
 budget neglect: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
-anchoring: ask the farmer to write down what the price was last season
 and stick it on the bag.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
-self-serving bias in how people interpret their past performance: rosy
 experience? 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset bibtex
LatexCommand bibtex
btprint "btPrintCited"
bibfiles "malawi_RCT"
options "plain"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
